h1. Hash and Objects

It's a common task to simulate objects from hashes, but one has to remember using hash access format in order to access it. Hashi helps you by allowing direct access to its content:

<pre>
	hash = { :team => {:players => [{:name=>"guilherme silveira"},{:name=>"jose donizetti"}]}}
	object = Hashi.to_object(hash)
	puts object.team.players[0].name
</pre>

h1. Why would I use Hashi?

h2. The reality without Hashi

<pre>
	hash = { :team => {:players => [{:name=>"guilherme silveira"},{:name=>"jose donizetti"}]}}
	puts hash[:team][:players][0][:name] # his name
</pre>

h2. The reality without Hashi, within Rails

Although the Ruby language provides an easy way to access hashes, it becomes easier if you use Rails with "Matt Pulver's":http://www.xcombinator.com/2008/07/06/activerecord-from_json-and-from_xml/ code:

<pre>
	class Team < ActiveRecord::Base
		has_many :players
	end
	class Player < ActiveRecord::Base
		# create a migration with field name:string
	end
	hash = { :team => {:players => [{:name=>"guilherme silveira"},{:name=>"jose donizetti"}]}}
	puts Team.from_xml(hash).players[0].name
</pre>

h2. How does it compare to Hashi?

Hashi actually does not create your attributes, instead it deals with *method_missing* invocations to
simulate those properties, never creating a copy of your hash.

h2. Updated hash

You can access the original hash (updated if you have made any changes) by one of those two ways:

<pre>
	hash = { :team => {:players => [{:name=>"guilherme silveira"},{:name=>"jose donizetti"}]}}
	object = Hashi.to_object(hash)
	object.team.players[0].name = 'jose donizetti'
	
	# the original hash was modified!
	puts hash
	
	# you can extract the original hash if you wish
	puts object.hash
	
</pre>

h1. Jeokkarak

Jeokkarak is the korean version of hashis. In our case, Jeokkarak is used to support
evolution-ready schemas and loosely coupled systems in the web.

h2. Updated hash

Jeokkarak only provides support for overriding values in a hash when you defined writer methods *do not* receive and interpret blocks (due to a famous ruby 1.8 limitation).

h1. Installing

h2. Ruby

gem install gemcutter
gem tumble
gem install hashi

h2. Rails

Just add in your environment.rb the following line:

<pre>
config.gem "hashi", :source => "http://gemcutter.org"
</pre>

And then execute:
<pre>rake gems:install</pre>

or, if you prefer to install it as a plugin:

<pre>script/plugin install git://github.com/caelum/hashi.git</pre>


h2. Help

If you are looking for or want to help, let us know at the mailing list:

"http://groups.google.com/group/hashi-ruby":http://groups.google.com/group/hashi-ruby

h2. Team

Hashi was created and is maintained within Caelum:http://www.caelum.com.br by

Projetct Founder
* "Guilherme Silveira":mailto:guilherme.silveira@caelum.com.br - twitter:http://www.twitter.com/guilhermecaelum "http://guilhermesilveira.wordpress.com":http://guilhermesilveira.wordpress.com

Active Commiters
* Guilherme Silveira
* Jose Donizetti

h3. Sources

You can see its source code at: "github":http://github.com/caelum/hashi

h2. What's new

h3. 1.0.1

* Supports boolean invocations with ?
* Non-existing fields will throw an exception

h2. License

/***
 * Copyright (c) 2009 Caelum - www.caelum.com.br/opensource
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 * 	http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
 */

